h1. NAME

*mysql-connector-java-log* :: *Log4j* and *SLF4j* implementation of *MySQL Connector/J* (JDBC driver) logging interface.

h1. DESCRIPTION

This package implements  "Log4j":http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/ and "SLF4j":http://www.slf4j.org/ logging interface of "MySQL Connector/J":http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/ JDBC driver.

h1. NAME

*mysql-connector-java-log* :: *Log4j* and *SLF4j* implementation of *MySQL Connector/J* (JDBC driver) logging interface.

h1. DESCRIPTION

This package implements  "Log4j":http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/ and "SLF4j":http://www.slf4j.org/ logging interface of "MySQL Connector/J":http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/ JDBC driver.

h1. BUILD

You need "Maven":http://maven.apache.org/ and "Java JDK":http://java.sun.com to build this package.

To build, enter source directory, and type:

<pre><code>
 mvn clean package
</code></pre>

JAR is placed in *target/* directory.

h1. DEPLOY

Install JAR file in Java application's CLASSPATH, configure MySQL JDBC connector's
URL and optionally configure your logger (this mostly applies to Log4j).

h1. IMPLEMENTATIONS

h2. Log4j

h3. Log4j configuration:

Add appender and new logger section to *log4j.properties*.

<pre>
 # set logging level and appender for mysql logging class
 log4j.logger.si.planet9.mysql=DEBUG, appMySQL
 
 # configure mysql appender
 log4j.appender.appMySQL=org.apache.log4j.DailyRollingFileAppender
 log4j.appender.appMySQL.File=${user.home}/logs/mysql-jdbc-driver.log
 log4j.appender.appMySQL.DatePattern='.'yyyyMMdd
 log4j.appender.appMySQL.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
 log4j.appender.appMySQL.layout.ConversionPattern=[%d{dd MMM yyyy HH:mm:ss.SSS}] %-5p [%c{1}]: %m%n
</pre>

h3. JDBC configuration

Add *logger=si.planet9.mysql.log.Log4j* to JDBC URL.

Example:
<pre><code>
 jdbc.class=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
 jdbc.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/database?autoReconnect=true&logSlowQueries=true&slowQueryThresholdMillis=500&dumpQueriesOnException=true&gatherPerfMetrics=true&useUsageAdvisor=true&explainSlowQueries=true&reportMetricsIntervalMillis=60000&logger=si.planet9.mysql.log.Log4j
</code></pre>

h2. SLF4j

h3. JDBC configuration

Add *logger=si.planet9.mysql.log.Slf4j* to JDBC URL.

Example:
<pre><code>
 jdbc.class=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
 jdbc.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/database?autoReconnect=true&logSlowQueries=true&slowQueryThresholdMillis=500&dumpQueriesOnException=true&gatherPerfMetrics=true&useUsageAdvisor=true&explainSlowQueries=true&reportMetricsIntervalMillis=60000&logger=si.planet9.mysql.log.Slf4j
</code></pre>

h1. SAMPLE LOGGING OUTPUT

Sample output by log4j:

<pre>
 [25 Jan 2011 16:28:20.889] WARN  [Log4j]: WARN created: Tue Jan 25 16:28:20 CET 2011 duration: 0
 connection: 1415 statement: 1103 resultset: -1 message: PreparedStatement created, but used 1
 or fewer times. It is more efficient to prepare statements once, and re-use them many times
 
 [25 Jan 2011 16:28:50.895] INFO  [Log4j]: ** Performance Metrics Report ** 
 Longest reported query: 51 ms
 Shortest reported query: 1 ms
 Average query execution time: 2.6352201257861636 ms
 Number of statements executed: 159
 Number of result sets created: 151
 Number of statements prepared: 0
 Number of prepared statement executions: 0
        Timing Histogram:
        less than 3 ms:         6       
        Table Join Histogram:
        2 tables or less:               151     ********************
</pre>

h1. LICENSE

<pre>
 Copyright (c) 2011, Brane F. Gracnar
 All rights reserved.

 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
 are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
 
   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list
     of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
     list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
     other materials provided with the distribution.
   
   * Neither the name of the <ORGANIZATION> nor the names of its contributors may be used 
     to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior 
     written permission.

 
 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY 
 EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
 SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
 INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
 TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR 
 BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
 CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN 
 ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
 OF SUCH DAMAGE.
</pre>